Then our next kind of like exercise here,
we are going to look at some of
the more sophisticated seems
really some more advanced,
if you will, component patterns.
That you might again the thing I'll say
is like definitely making your opponent
library but like also if you're just
working in a large code base because yeah.
So this is a common pattern now we have
a design system and in our design system,
you have different variants of a button,
you have a primary button,
a secondary button,
a destructive button, a disabled button,
small buttons, big buttons,
all sorts of buttons.
And though the way that we
do it is it's actually more
like this like button and
then variant is primary.
But you can have a button that is
both primary and secondary, but
you can have like a primary disabled
button and stuff along those lines.
So this is one way to do it with just
having a string you can use a union type.
What I would love to do is have
a syntax more like this where I
can kind of just pass any other types
of buttons indirectly as a prop.
In case, you've probably seen this syntax
before, but if you haven't in react,
any prop is passed in without an equal
sign an argument is just true.
It's just a Boolean and it's true.
So you can see that we've got this type
up here, where we've got the children.
And in this case, we know that react
node can be a child I'm making it so
that since it's a button,
it is only a string.
So I'm again, using my types to
enforce the intention of my code.
But I've got three optional prompts.
So there's nothing stopping me right now.
They're saying that a button
is both primary and secondary.
And that's not great because it's like a,
in this case, whatever order they're in
here like wins because that's the way
the class names are put on there.
Like that's not great.
And so I want to make it so that like
if somebody accidentally does that
TypeScript warns them at compile time,
and we don't ship it to production.
Because that would just be one of those
things where it's like, you might have
a Cypress test that's lucky enough to
catch it, but probably is just a booboo
that you didn't mean to do and you will
find a customer found defect around it.
So what we're going to try to do is get
a little advance with our types and
see if we can create a system
where you can pass in any
given one of those properties,
but not more than one.
And this will be somewhat similar if
you remember when we were talking
the reducers.
And we said okay for increment and
decrement I don't want a payload.
But for set,
I do want a payload with a new value.
This is somewhat similar to
what we did there as well.
And so what we're going to do
is create some new types here.
So we've got button props and
button props are going to be the props
that are common to all of the buttons.
And so we're going to remove some stuff,
we're going to basically end up removing
these three, but we'll start out
by just making our new types.
And so type primary button props,
Is going to be everything in button props,
Along with primary being a Boolean.
Right, and you can see how the story goes.
The secondary button props Would be
Destructive button props
will be everything shared
in the button prompts and
then destructive is a Boolean.
So let's look at what we have here.
This is kind of interesting up, hold on.
Let's actually remove
this part here first.
So you can see that it's button props and
prime minister bullying so on and so
forth, right?
In this case,
it will be children and primary,
children and secondary, children and
destructive, but not more than one.
Before we had options, it like
the either undefined or they're set.
Here we're saying we have three different
types which is simply the children and
maybe, yes, Prime Minister,
I thought it was a V for a second there.
So it's now three different types, where
can be any given one of those, right?
But not all of them, and
we can get a little bit better because now
we've just an optional if any of them.
TypeScript has a type called never.
And it's like, if optional is
like maybe you hand it to me.
Never is absolutely not.
Should this ever be set, no matter what.
And so if you think about this,
we could do something kind
of interesting here as well.
Where we say all right,
we're gonna say its primary,
but then secondary should
never be that destructive,
Never as well.
So we can do that as well.
Again adding an additional
kind of safety there.
Here we'll just change
this one to primary.
And we'll change this one here to primary.
Cool, so we've got that all in place.
And so now we can kind of change our
button props a little bit as well.
And so we're going to do here is
we'll go ahead and we'll say alright,
because button props is now just children.
So you can see that all of these are angry
about primary, secondary and destructive.
So none of that is working
the way that we want it to.
So what we need to do is say, listen,
you can be any of these three types.
We're cool with any of them.
And you can see that the nice part
is that they kind of don't overlap.
So we can go ahead and we'll say that,
okay, all three of these are false and
we'll say it's button props.
We can actually probably just get away
with saying, hey let's try it out.
We'll say, this is a union
of PrimaryButtonProps or
SecondaryButtonProps or
DestructiveButtonProps, cool.
Now you can see everything works but
if I try to pass in secondary,
Button is now angry with me.
You can pass in anyone but
you can't pass into,
because it'll match any one of these
types but you can see that these other
types here don't allow secondary or
destructive either, right?
And so we can now have any given one of
them I think you can probably even remove
these I like these because they
actually make it very clear.
I'm pretty sure you're
moving to find out together.
If not, I'll quickly walk that back.
So we do need the never on those otherwise
it will try to match, so put that back.
So yeah, we have these types which
are effectively primary, secondary and
destructive.
You cannot put more than one because any
given type discludes the other ones.
So yeah, is an effective way to just
add more safety to how you intend
your components to be used.
And useful like,
do you need to do it all the time?
No.
But if you know that you're building
a component library used by other teams
incredibly useful, or
if you just know that again, over time,
the intention of that code,
all those great ideas that you had.
Start to slip away a little bit like it.
There's two developers, you have to worry.
The most important valve in the world
is you six months from now,
who doesn't know what you meant when
you wrote that code originally.
So you are basically trying to do
a favor to future you in this case.
Again, the most important
developer in the world.